packages/enchannel/README.md, before:

# enchannel

Enchannel is a light spec for setting up communications between a frontend, like the [notebook](https://github.com/jupyter/notebook) or [jupyter-sidecar](https://github.com/nteract/jupyter-sidecar), and a backend kernel (the runtime, like Python, Julia, or R).

[![enchannel](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/836375/12282043/b19bb16e-b960-11e5-8661-ce2111ec0417.png)](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/836375/12282043/b19bb16e-b960-11e5-8661-ce2111ec0417.png)

The core functionality of the notebook is to send messages from a frontend to a backend, and from a backend to a frontend ([or many frontends](https://github.com/nteract/jupyter-sidecar)).

In the case of the Jupyter/IPython notebook, it communicates over websockets (which in turn reach out to 0MQ on the backend).

What if you want to serve the same HTML and Javascript for the notebook application itself while being able to work in a native 0MQ environment? What if websockets are fairly restricted in your *ahem corporate* environment and you need to send data via `POST` and receive streaming updates using server-sent events?

We'd need a nice clean way to abstract the transport layer. Since [Jupyter is messages all the way down](http://jupyter-client.readthedocs.org/en/latest/messaging.html), one way is to hook up a series of event emitters all with the same interface. That's [definitely do-able](https://github.com/nteract/jupyter-transport-wrapper). What is proposed here is that we would rely on `Observable`s, asynchronous data streams. Even better is to rely on RxJS's implementation, since we get a nice functional approach to messaging:

```javascript
iopub.filter(msg => msg.header.msg_type === 'execute_result')
     .map(msg => msg.content.data)
     .subscribe(x => { console.log(`DATA: ${util.inspect(x)}`)})
```

On top of that, since these are subjects, we can go ahead and submit messages to the underlying transport:

```javascript
var message = {
  header: {
    msg_id: `execute_${uuid.v4()}`,
    username: '',
    session: '00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000',
    msg_type: 'execute_request',
    version: '5.0',
  },
  content: {
    code: 'print("woo")',
    silent: false,
    store_history: true,
    user_expressions: {},
    allow_stdin: false,
  },
};

shell.send(message); // alias of onNext - the actual Rx parlance
```

In order to get this, we make 4 RxJS Subjects for each of the [four sockets](http://jupyter-client.readthedocs.org/en/latest/messaging.html):

* Shell
* STDIN
* Control
* IOPub

Each backend has to implement this by providing an exported function that can take their choice of parameters, so long as they all return 

```javascript
{
  iopub: iopubObservable,
  shell: shellSubject,
  control: controlSubject,
  stdin: stdinSubject
}
```

Commit message:

Fix up the subjects, note missing heartbeat

packages/enchannel/README.md, after:

# enchannel

Enchannel is a light spec for setting up communications between a frontend, like the [notebook](https://github.com/jupyter/notebook) or [jupyter-sidecar](https://github.com/nteract/jupyter-sidecar), and a backend kernel (the runtime, like Python, Julia, or R).

[![enchannel](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/836375/12282043/b19bb16e-b960-11e5-8661-ce2111ec0417.png)](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/836375/12282043/b19bb16e-b960-11e5-8661-ce2111ec0417.png)

The core functionality of the notebook is to send messages from a frontend to a backend, and from a backend to a frontend ([or many frontends](https://github.com/nteract/jupyter-sidecar)).

In the case of the Jupyter/IPython notebook, it communicates over websockets (which in turn reach out to 0MQ on the backend).

What if you want to serve the same HTML and Javascript for the notebook application itself while being able to work in a native 0MQ environment? What if websockets are fairly restricted in your *ahem corporate* environment and you need to send data via `POST` and receive streaming updates using server-sent events?

We'd need a nice clean way to abstract the transport layer. Since [Jupyter is messages all the way down](http://jupyter-client.readthedocs.org/en/latest/messaging.html), one way is to hook up a series of event emitters all with the same interface. That's [definitely do-able](https://github.com/nteract/jupyter-transport-wrapper). What is proposed here is that we would rely on `Observable`s, asynchronous data streams. Even better is to rely on RxJS's implementation, since we get a nice functional approach to messaging:

```javascript
iopub.filter(msg => msg.header.msg_type === 'execute_result')
     .map(msg => msg.content.data)
     .subscribe(x => { console.log(`DATA: ${util.inspect(x)}`)})
```

On top of that, since these are subjects, we can go ahead and submit messages to the underlying transport:

```javascript
var message = {
  header: {
    msg_id: `execute_${uuid.v4()}`,
    username: '',
    session: '00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000',
    msg_type: 'execute_request',
    version: '5.0',
  },
  content: {
    code: 'print("woo")',
    silent: false,
    store_history: true,
    user_expressions: {},
    allow_stdin: false,
  },
};

shell.send(message); // alias of onNext - the actual Rx parlance
```

In order to get this, we make 4 RxJS Subjects for each of the [four sockets](http://jupyter-client.readthedocs.org/en/latest/messaging.html):

* Shell
* STDIN
* Control
* IOPub

Each backend has to implement this by providing an exported function that can take their choice of parameters, so long as they all return 

```javascript
{
  iopub: iopubSubject,
  shell: shellSubject,
  control: controlSubject,
  stdin: stdinSubject
}
```

Note that [heartbeat](http://jupyter-client.readthedocs.org/en/latest/messaging.html#heartbeat-for-kernels) is not included above, primarily because it's being thought of as something that may end up being deprecated.
